h1. GemTools

h2. DESCRIPTION:

The gem verison of my lightweight tool to manage gems using a config file, 
similar to GemInstaller.

My blog post on why "I prefer GemTools over config:gem":http://underpantsgnome.com/2009/4/8/i-prefer-gemtools-over-config-gem

h2.  SYNOPSIS:

I use this to manage gem versions in my apps, it has a script to install gems 
and a load utility to load them on startup.

h3. create a gems.yml in a new project

  gemtools setup path/to/app

h3. Install or update required gems

  gemtools install
  
h3. Check to see if any of the gems in your app have newer versions

  gemtools check_updates

h3. Generate a Gemfile from your current gems.yml

  gemtools to_gemfile
  

Make sure they are loaded with the right versions during startup, by adding the 
following to your script or environment.rb (Rails)

  require 'gem_tools'
  GemTools.load_gems


See the "sample config":http://github.com/UnderpantsGnome/gem_tools/blob/master/gems.yml.sample for the format

h2.  INSTALL:

  [sudo] gem install gem_tools

h2.  TODO

  * Write the tests/specs
  * Make it work in Windows

h2.  LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008 Michael Moen

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.